Now that we covered: pwd, ls,
and cd and are familiar with
these basic commands for
navigating the
Linux file system,
let's look at a
couple of ways to
find what you need
within this system.
As a security analyst,
your work will likely involve
filtering for the
information you need.
Filtering means searching
your system for
specific information that can
help you solve complex problems.
For example, imagine
that your team
determines a piece of
malware contains a
string of characters.
You might be tasked with
finding other files with
the same string to determine if
those files contain
the same malware.
Later, we'll learn
more about how
you can use SQL to
filter a database,
but Linux is a good place
to start basic filtering.
First, we'll start with grep.
The grep command searches
a specified file and
returns all lines in
the file containing
a specified string.
Here's an example of this.
Let's say we have a file
called updates.txt,
and we're currently
looking for lines that
contain the word: OS.
If the file is large,
it would take a long time
to visually scan for this.
Instead, after navigating to
the directory that
contains updates.txt,
we'll type the command:
grep OS updates.txt into the shell.
Notice how the grep command
is followed by two arguments.
The first argument is the
string we're searching for;
in this case, OS.
The second argument is
the name of the file
we're searching
through, updates.txt.
When we press enter,
Bash returns all lines
containing the word OS.
Now let's talk about piping.
Piping is a Linux command that
can be used for a
variety of purposes.
In a moment, we'll focus on
how it can be used
for filtering.
But first, let's talk about
the general idea of piping.
The piping command sends
a standard output of
one command as standard input
into another command
for further processing.
It's represented by the
vertical bar character.
In our context,
we can refer to this
as the pipe character.
Take a moment and
imagine a physical pipe.
Physical pipes have two ends.
On one end, for example,
water might enter the pipe
from a hot water tank.
Then, it travels
through the pipe and
comes out on the
other end in a sink.
Similarly, in Linux,
piping also involves
redirection.
Output from one command
is sent through
the pipe and then is used on
the other side of the pipe.
Earlier in this video,
I explained how grep can
be used to filter for
strings of characters
within a file.
Grep can also be
incorporated after a pipe.
Let's focus on this example.
The first command, ls,
instructs the operating
system to output the file
and directory contents of
their reports subdirectory.
But because the command
is followed by the pipe,
the output isn't
returned to the screen.
Instead, it's sent
to the next command.
As we just learned,
grep searches for a specified
string of characters;
in this case, it's users.
But where is it searching?
Since grep follows a pipe,
the output of the
previous command
indicates where to search.
In this case, that
output is a list of
files and directories within
the reports subdirectory.
It will return all files and
directories that
contain the word: users.
Let's explore this in Bash.
So we can better understand
how the filter works,
let's first output everything
in the reports directory.
If we were already
in the directory,
we would just need to input ls.
But since we're not, we'll also
specify the path
to this directory.
When we press enter,
the output indicates there are
seven files in the
reports directory.
Because we want to return
only the files that
contain the word users,
we'll combine this ls command
with piping and
the grep command.
As the output demonstrates,
Linux has been
instructed to return
only files that contain
the word users.
The two files that don't contain
this string no longer appear.
So now you have two different
ways that you can
filter in Linux while
working as an analyst.
Navigating through files and
filtering are just part
of what you need to know.
Let's keep exploring
the Linux command line.